#LyX 1.6.7 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\topmargin 2.54cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Final Project Proposal
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Tim Horton
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I'd like to implement a system for automatically extracting regions from
 an image based on their distance from the viewer, and then using this depth
 data, implement interesting depth-based visualizations — for the purposes
 of this project, faux-anaglyph-3D and off-axis focal blur.
 I imagine an implementation which takes a series of images taken at different
 (known) focal distances of a stationary scene (and from a fixed viewpoint),
 and processes them in the following way:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
To adjust for 
\begin_inset Formula $\textbf{breathing}$
\end_inset

, use SIFT keypointing to determine an approximate linear scale factor (I've
 only seen lenses which breathe outwards evenly from the center; the one
 I'll be using for this experiment certainly does so) for each image; transform
 each image by this scale factor and crop to the smallest size, so you have
 a series of images with features precisely stacked on top of each other.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
To determine 
\begin_inset Formula $\textbf{depth}$
\end_inset

 for each pixel, apply a contrast measurement to localized regions (each
 pixel's depth being determined by the contrast of 
\begin_inset Formula $n$
\end_inset

 nearby pixels, distributed in a Gaussian manner).
 Somewhat similar to the algorithm already used for autofocus in some cameras
 (mine uses phase detection, but lots of point-and-shoots use contrast).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
To create a 
\begin_inset Formula $\textbf{layered}$
\end_inset

 image, discretize the pixels by depth into a 
\begin_inset Formula $z$
\end_inset

-dimension.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
To 
\begin_inset Formula $\textbf{visualize}$
\end_inset

 the now fully-three-dimensional image data, create remapped images with
 faux-anaglyph-3D (generate a red-blue anaglyph image using the localized
 depth information), and off-axis focal blur (often made possible by tilt-shift
 lenses, to great photographic effect), both of which should be relatively
 simple to implement given a 3D image.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Image data will come from myself, as it did in the previous homeworks.
 I've got a really wide (f/1.4) lens which should have a thin enough depth-of-fie
ld to easily separate a scene with varying depth; I'll just use this on
 a tripod and take multiple exposures of the same scene at different focal
 distances.
 (If I'm really lucky, I'll have the ability to take video through the lens
 before the end of the semester, and can use that to more easily capture
 scenes).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It seems somewhat likely that I'll end up doing some GPU-side computation,
 because I always drop to that when I need to filter images quickly; I spent
 a lot of time with OpenCL last semester...
 always makes things more fun.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I'm not sure if this will all work, but I don't see why it wouldn't (and
 have discussed it with a few other people who seem to think it at least
 makes sense).
 Let me know if this isn't sufficient for the project (possible) or is too
 crazy (or known not to work).
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
